# 2. Systems Software
## Chapter 7 - *Functions of an Operating System*

### What does an OS do?

- A **user interface** to act as a bridge between the user and the hardware
- **Manages memory** by allocating RAM to different programs, ensuring that each process gets a share.
- **Processor scheduling** and **interrupt handling** to change what is being processed by the CPU on a priority basis
- **Peripheral management** communicates with inputs and outputs. It may transfer data to buffers to compensate for the difference in speed between an output device and the CPU.
- **Backing store management** keeps a directory of where files are stored so that they can be quickly accessed.

## Chapter 9 - *The Nature of Applications*

### Proprietary Software

- Regular updates
- Large user base
- Technical support lines
- Training courses

## Chapter 10 - *Programming Language Translators*

### Bytecode

- When Java (or python using the Jython compiler) is compiled into bytecode, it can then be run on any computer with a **Java Virtual Machine**.
- The JVM masks the inherent differences between computer architectures and operating systems and converts the bytecode into machine code for that particular computer.
- This allows for **platform independence.**
- **Guards against any malicious programs** as you are executing the Java bytecode interpreter rather than the program itself.

### Lexical analysis

- Superfluous spaces are removed
- Identified comments are removed
- Flags up illegal identifiers and values
- Replaces keywords, constants, and identifiers with **tokens**.

### Symbol table

- Contains every keyword and identifier in the program
- Table will show:
    - kind of item
    - type of item
    - run-time address or its value if its constant
    - a pointer to accessing information
- Organised as a **hash table** so that entries can be found as quickly as possible.

### Syntax analysis

- Determines whether the sequence of characters, symbols, and tokens form a valid sentence in the language.
- **Parses** each statement to a set of rules using **syntax diagrams** or **Backus-Naur** form to determine if it is valid.
- Fills in kind of item and type of item columns in the symbol table.

### Semantic analysis

- Checks whether syntactically correct statements can actually be executed.
- Examples of errors picked up by semantic analysis would be trying to use an undeclared variable or trying to assign a real value to an integer variable.

### Linkers and loaders

- Users running a program will not necessarily have the required libraries installed on their machine
- Therefore the relevant code needs to be included in the final executable
